Update S3 docs (#4658)
pachyderm/pachyderm: doc/docs/master/deploy-manage/manage/s3gateway/deploy-s3gateway-sidecar.md

# Create an S3-enabled Pipeline

If you want to use Pachyderm with such platforms like Kubeflow or
Apache™ Spark, you need to create an S3-enabled Pachyderm pipeline.
Such a pipeline ensures that data provenance of the pipelines that
run in those external systems is properly preserved and is tied to
corresponding Pachyderm jobs.

Pachyderm can deploy the S3 gateway either together with the `pachd` pod or

> as a sidecar next to your pipeline worker pod. The former is

Reviewer: This implies that deployment of the master s3g is a flag, but it's not; it's just deployed by default (and last I checked, there isn't a flag to disable it.)

Author: Modified.

typically used when you need to configure an ingress or egress with
object storage tooling, such as MinIO, boto3, and others. The latter
is needed when you use Pachyderm with external data processing
platforms, such as Kubeflow or Apache Spark, that interact with
object stores but do not work with local file systems.

Platforms like Kubeflow run their own set of Kubernetes pods. If you
enable an S3 gateway next to `pachd`, these pods connect to this *master* S3

> gateway and read files from there. The master S3 gateway lives

Reviewer: Above comment applies here too

Author: Modified.

file systems, such as Kubeflow or Apache Spark.

Platforms like Kubeflow run their own set of pods. If you enable an
S3 gateway next to `pachd`, these pods connect to this *master* S3
gateway and read files from there. The master S3 gateway lives
independently and outside of the pipeline lifecycle. Therefore, if
Kubeflow connects through the master S3 gateway, the Pachyderm pipelines
created in Kubeflow do not properly maintain data provenance. When the
S3 functionality is exposed through a sidecar instance in the
pipeline worker pod, Kubeflow can access the files stored in S3 buckets
in the pipeline pod, which ensures the provenance is maintained
correctly. The S3 gateway sidecar instance is created together with the
pipeline and shut down when the pipeline is destroyed.

## Limitations

Pipelines exposed through a sidecar S3 gateway have the following limitations:

* Because of PFS limitations, you cannot write to the input repos exposed
through the S3 gateway instance. Similarly, you cannot read files from
the output bucket that you enabled by using the `s3_out` parameter in the
pipeline spec. This limitation guarantees that pipeline provenance is

> preserved.

Author: @JoeyZwicker, I might need your input here to better articulate the paragraph above.

* The `glob` field in the pipeline spec should not be specified. The glob

> pattern is explicitly set to `\` and all files are processed as a single

Reviewer: ```suggestion
pattern is automatically set to `/` and all files are processed as a single
```

datum. In this configuration, already processed datums are not skipped which
could be a performance consideration for some deployments.

* You can create a single or a cross input. Join and union inputs are not
supported. However, if you combine an S3-enabled input with a non-S3 input,

> you can specify a glob pattern for the latter.

Reviewer: This feels a little confusing to put all in one bullet point, since they're several unrelated capabilities/limitations

## Expose a Pipeline through an S3 Gateway in a Sidecar

When you work with platforms like Kubeflow or Apache Spark, you need
to spin up an S3 gateway instance that runs alongside the pipeline worker
pod as a sidecar container. To do so, set the `s3` parameter in the `input`
part of your pipeline specification to `true`. When enabled, this parameter
mounts S3 buckets for input repositories in the S3 gateway sidecar instance
instead of in `/pfs/`. You can set this property for each PFS input in
a pipeline. The address of the input repository will be `s3://<input_repo>`.

You can also expose the output repository through the same S3 gateway

> instance by setting the `s3_out` property to `true` in the `root` of

Reviewer: ```suggestion
instance by setting the `s3_out` property to `true` in the root of
```

the pipeline spec.  If set to `true`, Pachyderm creates another S3 bucket
on the sidecar, and the output files will be written there instead of
`/pfs/out`. By default, `s3_out` is set to `false`. The address of the
output repository will be `s3://<output_repo>`.

You can connect to the S3 gateway sidecar instance through its Kubernetes
service. To access the sidecar instance and the buckets on it, you need
to know the address of the buckets. Because PPS handles all permissions,
no special authentication configuration is needed.

Both the master and sidecar gateways can run concurrently, as well as

> repositories can be accessed through both of them.

Reviewer: This sentence is a bit confusing, because it's not quite the same thing exposed on s3 sidecar instances vs the s3 master instance. At the end of the day, they're all repositories, but they're different views into those repositories.

The following text is an example of a pipeline exposed through a sidecar
S3 gateway instance:

```json
{
	 "pipeline": {
	    "name": "test"
	 },
	 "input": {
	    "pfs": {
	       "glob": "/*",

> 	       "repo": "test-repo",

Reviewer: not valid json

           "s3": "true"
	 },
	 "transform": {
	    "cmd": [ "python3", "/test.py" ],
	    "image": "pachyderm/test"
	 },
     "s3_out": "true"

> }

Reviewer: this could use some consistent tabbing

Author: fixed

Reviewer 2: I think we should add something like:

For the above example, your code should read data from `s3://images` and should write to `s3://edges`.

Author: so, the `"s3_out": `parameter  I think is either true or false. not a path @ysimonson , is this correct?

Reviewer: it is true or false, but it's supposed to be a boolean rather than a string, e.g. `"s3_out": true`

# Create an S3-enabled Pipeline

Pachyderm can deploy the S3 gateway either together with the `pachd` pod or
as a sidecar next to your pipeline worker pod. The former is
typically used when you need to configure an ingress or egress with
object storage tooling, such as MinIO, boto3, and others. The latter
is needed when you use Pachyderm with external data processing
platforms that interact with object stores but do not work with local

> file systems, such as Kubeflow or Apache Spark.

Reviewer: we're using pod and sidecar, both of which are pretty k8s-specific terminology. I wonder - how much k8s knowledge should we expect from users? Is it reasonable to assume that using that terminology will help them grok the s3g sidecar?

Author: @ysimonson how are you suggesting to rephrase this?

Reviewer: It depends on how much k8s knowledge we should expect from the users

Author: Added some high-level intro. Still, I think we should keep the details about the K8s internals.

Platforms like Kubeflow run their own set of pods. If you enable an
S3 gateway next to `pachd`, these pods connect to this *master* S3
gateway and read files from there. The master S3 gateway lives
independently and outside of the pipeline lifecycle. Therefore, if
Kubeflow connects through the master S3 gateway, the Pachyderm pipelines
created in Kubeflow do not properly maintain data provenance. When the
S3 functionality is exposed through a sidecar instance in the
pipeline worker pod, Kubeflow can access the files stored in S3 buckets
in the pipeline pod, which ensures the provenance is maintained
correctly. The S3 gateway sidecar instance is created together with the
pipeline and shut down when the pipeline is destroyed.

## Limitations

Pipelines exposed through a sidecar S3 gateway have the following limitations:

* Because of PFS limitations, you cannot write to the input repos exposed
through the S3 gateway instance. Similarly, you cannot read files from
the output bucket that you enabled by using the `s3_out` parameter in the
pipeline spec. This limitation guarantees that pipeline provenance is

> preserved.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
* As with a typical Pachyderm pipeline, where the input repo is read-only and output is write-only, the same applied to using the S3 gateway within pipelines. The input bucket(s) are read-only and the output bucket that you define using the `s3_out` parameter is write-only. This limitation guarantees that pipeline provenance is
preserved just as it is with normal Pachyderm pipelines. 
```

Author: added

* The `glob` field in the pipeline spec should not be specified. The glob
pattern is automatically set to `\` and all files are processed as a single

> datum. In this configuration, already processed datums are not skipped which

Reviewer: This is no longer true - we're now requiring that the pipeline spec include `"glob": "/"`, so that the user has a better intuition of what datums will be exposed through the s3g sidecar instance.

Also, it's supposed to be a forward slash rather than back slash. I left that suggestion before, not sure what happened to it.

> could be a performance consideration for some deployments.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
could be an important performance consideration for some processing steps.
```

> * Join and union inputs are not supported, but you can create union or

Reviewer 2: ??? What about cross? And can you explain why this is? Is it just a simplification to get this shipped or is this a permanent limitation for a challenging technical reason?

```suggestion
* Join and union inputs are not supported, but you can create union??? or
```

specify an individual input.

> While you cannot create a join, you can create a union of an S3-enabled

Reviewer 2: The Union, cross, and Join limitations with and without S3G need to be more clearly listed out.

input with a non-S3 input. For a non-S3 input you can still specify a
glob pattern.

## Expose a Pipeline through an S3 Gateway in a Sidecar

When you work with platforms like Kubeflow or Apache Spark, you need
to spin up an S3 gateway instance that runs alongside the pipeline worker
pod as a sidecar container. To do so, set the `s3` parameter in the `input`
part of your pipeline specification to `true`. When enabled, this parameter

> mounts S3 buckets for input repositories in the S3 gateway sidecar instance

Reviewer 2: Is "mounts" the correct term here?

Reviewer: I think mount is fine here

instead of in `/pfs/`. You can set this property for each PFS input in

> a pipeline. The address of the input repository will be `s3://<input_repo>`.

Reviewer 2: > will be `s3://<input_repo>`.

Just double checking this. In normal S3G its branch.repo -- in this one it's just repo? I assume the change is just because the branch isn't needed since there no ability to take two branches in the same repo as inputs?

Author: @ysimonson can you please help answer the questions above?

Reviewer: @JoeyZwicker you can take two branches of the same repo as inputs fine. But every input has a name, and we use that as the bucket name.

You can also expose the output repository through the same S3 gateway
instance by setting the `s3_out` property to `true` in the root of
the pipeline spec.  If set to `true`, Pachyderm creates another S3 bucket
on the sidecar, and the output files will be written there instead of
`/pfs/out`. By default, `s3_out` is set to `false`. The address of the

> output repository will be `s3://<output_repo>`.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
output repository will be `s3://<output_repo>`, which is always the name of the pipeline.
```

You can connect to the S3 gateway sidecar instance through its Kubernetes
service. To access the sidecar instance and the buckets on it, you need
to know the address of the buckets. Because PPS handles all permissions,
no special authentication configuration is needed.

The following text is an example of a pipeline exposed through a sidecar
S3 gateway instance:

> ```json

Reviewer: tabbing still needs to be fixed on this

Author: If it's still not fixed, can you please be more specific?

Reviewer: Look at how it's rendering, the tabbing is not properly formatted:

<img width="888" alt="Screen Shot 2020-03-11 at 10 30 21 AM" src="https://user-images.githubusercontent.com/127386/76427981-f7b76880-63a4-11ea-96db-f32b5de3912d.png">

Author: I think it is fixed now.

{
	 "pipeline": {
	   "name": "test"
	 },
	 "input": {
	   "pfs": {

> 	     "glob": "/*",

Reviewer 2: should not have glob field. 

What happens if you do have it? I assume we just ignore it?

Author: now it should be `"glob": "/"`
